README.md, before:

# VibeOS

VibeOS is a hobby operating system project, written for fun and learning. It is not intended for any practical or production use—this is a purely vibe-coded project!

## Features

- **Custom Bootloader**: Loads the kernel from disk, sets up protected mode, and jumps to the kernel entry point using a proper far jump.
- **Robust Protected Mode Entry**: The kernel sets up its own GDT and segment registers, ensuring reliable operation regardless of the bootloader.
- **VGA Text Console**: Direct output to VGA text mode, with support for clearing the screen, scrolling, and cursor updates.
- **Interrupt-Driven Shell**: The shell is now fully interrupt-driven—keyboard input is handled by the keyboard interrupt handler, providing responsive and accurate command input.
- **Shell Commands**: Includes commands like `help`, `clear`, `count`, `ls`, `cat`, `echo`, and a simple file editor.
- **Simple In-Memory Filesystem**: Supports basic file operations in RAM.
- **Nano-like Editor**: Edit files in a minimal, non-modal text editor.
- **Larger Kernel Support**: The bootloader now loads up to 32 sectors (16 KB) of kernel code, supporting more features and larger binaries.

## Disclaimer

**This project is for educational and entertainment purposes only.**

- VibeOS is a "vibe-coded" project: it is not intended for any practical, production, or real-world use.
- Expect bugs, missing features, and wild design choices.
- If you want to learn OS development, feel free to use this as a reference or playground!

## Building and Running

See the Makefile for build instructions. You will need `nasm`, `gcc` (with 32-bit support), and `qemu` or another emulator.

```sh
make clean && make all
make run
```

---

Enjoy the vibes! ✨

Commit message:

Refactor Makefile to support modular kernel structure; reorganize source files into subdirectories for core, drivers, filesystem, and commands. Remove obsolete console and editor files, and update linker script accordingly.

README.md, after:

# VibeOS

VibeOS is a hobby operating system project, written for fun and learning. It is not intended for any practical or production use—this is a purely vibe-coded project!

## Features

- **Custom Bootloader**: Loads the kernel from disk, sets up protected mode, and jumps to the kernel entry point using a proper far jump.
- **Robust Protected Mode Entry**: The kernel sets up its own GDT and segment registers, ensuring reliable operation regardless of the bootloader.
- **VGA Text Console**: Direct output to VGA text mode, with support for clearing the screen, scrolling, and cursor updates.
- **Interrupt-Driven Shell**: The shell is now fully interrupt-driven—keyboard input is handled by the keyboard interrupt handler, providing responsive and accurate command input.
- **Shell Commands**: Includes commands like `help`, `clear`, `count`, `ls`, `cat`, `echo`, and a simple file editor.
- **Simple In-Memory Filesystem**: Supports basic file operations in RAM.
- **Nano-like Editor**: Edit files in a minimal, non-modal text editor.
- **Larger Kernel Support**: The bootloader now loads up to 32 sectors (16 KB) of kernel code, supporting more features and larger binaries.

## Disclaimer

**This project is for educational and entertainment purposes only.**

- VibeOS is a "vibe-coded" project: it is not intended for any practical, production, or real-world use.
- Expect bugs, missing features, and wild design choices.
- If you want to learn OS development, feel free to use this as a reference or playground!

## Building and Running

See the Makefile for build instructions. You will need `nasm`, `gcc` (with 32-bit support), and `qemu` or another emulator.

```sh
make clean && make all
make run
```

---

## Shell Command Structure (Modular)

Shell commands are now modularized:
- Each command is implemented in its own file under `kernel/commands/` (e.g., `help.c`, `ls.c`, etc.).
- Each command provides a function: `void cmd_<name>(const char* args, const char* flag);`
- The shell dispatches to these handlers based on the command name.
- Shared helpers (like `kstrcmp`) are in `kernel/commands/command_utils.h`.

### Adding a New Command
1. Create a new file in `kernel/commands/` (e.g., `foo.c`).
2. Implement `void cmd_foo(const char* args, const char* flag);`.
3. Include `command_utils.h` for helpers.
4. Add an `#include "commands/foo.c"` in `kernel/shell.c` and a dispatch entry in `handle_command`.

All commands should support `--help`/`-h` flags for usage info.

---

Enjoy the vibes! ✨
